"We have done an in-depth study of where we are relative to the Chinese and Russians (across) the entire spectrum, and we've got some work to do," Selva said. "We have to figure out alternative pathways for communications and command and control so it doesn't have to be an RF (Radio Frequency) game…It's an RF game because we chose to make it so." He didn't specify what the alternatives to radio communication were, but there's been promising work using lasers to beam messages. (Breaking D readers will remember that we first reported the demise of America's lead in spectrum four years ago.) Securing our communications networks isn't enough, Work told me afterwards, because every weapon system now has chips in it that can be hacked into. "We have focused on securing network communications, but our biggest vulnerabilities now, Sydney, are in the DoD Internet of Things — the way you can crack into the network through platforms (e.g. tanks, aircraft, ships) and through components on platforms," Work said. "The Russians and the Chinese understand these vulnerabilities and really try to exploit them." So there are really three fronts in cyber/electronic warfare, and Work isn't sanguine about any of them. "Dominating the electromagnetic spectrum, and securing the DoD Internet of Things, and securing networks, all of these three things, in my view, we're well behind in," he told me. The whole "Chinese theory of victory," he said, is known (in translation) as "systems destruction warfare" because it focuses on electronically paralyzing command-and-control rather than physically destroying tanks, ships, and planes. Now, artificial intelligence could potentially revolutionize electronic warfare. Computers can identify signals, trace them, and making jamming decisions much faster than human minds — a concept called "cognitive EW." But that's just one of the many military applications of AI, from advising human commanders to coordinating swarms of combat robots. While Selva didn't address Artificial Intelligence, Work did; it's one of his passions and the central theme of the (now deprecated) Third Offset Strategy. So who's ahead in AI? Defense Innovation Advisory Board chairman Eric Schmidt, a former Google AI guru, told Work he had once thought the US was five years ahead of the Chinese, Work recounted. But after a recent trip to China, Work recounted, Schmidt changed his verdict: "If we have six months, we're lucky." Schmidt said last year that the US lacks a coherent strategy to counter the Chinese in this area. The US has never been in a competition this intense, Work said. China has made AI an official national priority — something he thinks the White House should do here — and the Chinese have great coders. The Pentagon is now creating a Joint Artificial Intelligence Center, something Schmidt's DIB proposed over a year ago, Work noted. "We've got a lot of advantages and we can do very, very well in this race but don't take anything for granted," Work told me. Just as politicians are warned never to take victory for granted, neither should DoD. "It's a political rule to always run like you're losing, and that's what we have to do in this area….The Chinese are very clever and very capable competitors, and they're intent on surpassing us."