The RNN adds the memory component to the process. "This is what gives you time, and time is what gives you context," Clouse said.  "You see a person standing next to the truck and then you see a person sitting in the truck. You can intuit that person got into the truck. You start to see relationships in the sequences."There's some urgency to this work, as the military comes to rely ever more heavily on video capture as a situational awareness tool. Velten pointed especially to the Air Force's use of video feeds from remotely piloted aircraft."The Air Force makes a lot of use of this stuff, and then there are also the small UAVs that are becoming more and more interesting. That is right now the principle motivation," he said. The AFRL team needs about five more years to produce a battlefield-worthy version of its video scanning AI tool. To get to the finish line, researchers need to spend more time looking at actual intel and tackling specific military objectives. Just as last year's movie competition had a specific tactical goal — caption five seconds of a movie — the researchers need to build their tools around specific ISR objectives. The AI is only as good at what you tell it to do, and they're still refining the process of writing those instructions for the machines to follow. "We have a lot of data right now. What we need are concrete objectives to train the system," Clouse said. "We need an operational setting where we have some data that is labeled or captioned appropriately that we can feed into the training mechanism, in order to train the systems on what to look for. "If it works, an AI-driven system could make it easier to pull the most important information from a video feed. Watching video takes time, far more time than it would take to read a simple sentence or two the sums up the relevant action. "We want to efficiently translate all this video information into a semantic form that is efficient for people to use," Clouse said. "Fundamentally it means that you know what is going on and you know what has changed, without having to stare at every frame as it goes by."