Given the extreme complexity of the swarm ecosystem, planners may need to develop more novel forms of interface. "The richness of the interactions we wish to have with these swarms may merit more immersive technologies," he said. "That might be virtual reality, augmented reality, all the way to virtual assistants like Siri and Alexa, where you can communicate with them and they can provide you with tactical information." Virtual reality will have a role to play on OFFSET, outside such questions of interface. As the team seeks out solutions, it will be developing a VR gaming environment in which users develop tactics for swarm manipulation in a simulated environment. Technical constraints limit how swarms can be used in the real world, "but we still want to explore the possible combinations," Chung said. "It would be difficult for us to explore every permutation of a swarm system in the physical world, just because of the time and cost. So we see an opportunity to employ a game-based environment, a virtual environment, where we can insert and explore technologies in these swarm tactics." This approach could give military planners insight into how best to use future swarms. For example, game drones could be rigged out with hypothetical sensors, giving them the ability to see through multiple sets of walls. If the results look promising, military planners might push development of such sensors for actual deployment. "We want to look at the things we can look at physically, the things we can presently realize. But we also look at what we can do in this virtual setting, and then toggle between those to determine where we can best invest our development resources," Chung said. The biggest challenge here is the need for simultaneous efforts in the development ecosystem. For swarms to fly, engineers need to work out the aviation aspect; software needs to evolve; the human interface has to be refined, and lots of heavy-duty computational and decision-making tools will have to be built. All this has to happen more or less at the same time. "I have a glass full of water on a table that I am currently building. So I can't just build one leg of the table, or the glass will tip. We need to build all the legs concurrently, in a holistic, systems-oriented approach," Chung said.