Some reports indicate that DOD and the defense industry also face challenges when it comes to recruiting and retaining personnel with expertise in AI due to research funding and salaries that significantly lag behind those of commercial companies. Other reports suggest that such challenges stem from quality-of-life factors, as well as from a belief among many technology workers that “they can achieve large-scale change faster and better outside the government than within it.” This sentiment echoes the findings of the National Security Commission on Artificial Intelligence, which notes that “AI experts would be willing to serve in government if officials could create a more compelling sense of purpose and a technical environment within government that would maximize their talents.” Regardless, observers note that if DOD and defense industry are unable to recruit and retain the appropriate experts, military AI applications could be delayed, “deficient, or lacking in appropriate safeguards and testing.” To address these challenges, the Obama Administration launched the Defense Digital Service in 2015 as a means of recruiting private sector technology workers to serve in DOD for one to two year assignments—a “tour of duty for nerds,” according to former director Chris Lynch. Similarly, former Deputy Secretary of Defense Bob Work has proposed an “AI Training Corps,” in which DOD “would pay for advanced technical education in exchange for two days a month of training with government systems and two weeks a year for major exercises.” Participants in the program could additionally be called to government service in the event of a national emergency. Other analysts have recommended the establishment of new military training and occupational specialties to cultivate AI talent, as well as the creation of government fellowships and accelerated promotion tracks to reward the most talented technology workers. An apparent cultural divide between DOD and commercial technology companies may also present challenges for AI adoption. A recent survey of leadership in several top Silicon Valley companies found that nearly 80% of participants rated the commercial technology community’s relationship with DOD as poor or very poor. This was due to a number of factors, including process challenges, perceptions of mutual distrust, and differences between DOD and commercial incentive structures. Moreover, some companies are refusing to work with DOD due to ethical concerns over the government’s use of AI in surveillance or weapon systems. Notably, Google canceled existing government contracts for two robotics companies it acquired—Boston Dynamics and Schaft— and prohibited future government work for DeepMind, a Google-acquired AI software startup. In May 2018, Google employees successfully lobbied the company to withdraw from Project Maven and refrain from further collaboration with DOD. Other companies, however, have pledged to continue supporting DOD contracts, with Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos noting that “if big tech companies are going to turn their back on the U.S. Department of Defense, this country is going to be in trouble.” Cultural factors within the defense establishment itself may also impede AI integration. The integration of AI into existing systems alters standardized procedures and upends well-defined personnel roles. Members of Project Maven have reported a resistance to AI integration because integration can be disruptive without always providing an immediately recognizable benefit. Deputy Director for CIA technology development Dawn Meyerriecks has also expressed concern about the willingness of senior leaders to accept AI-generated analysis, arguing that the defense establishment’s risk-averse culture may pose greater challenges to future competitiveness than the pace of adversary technology development. Finally, some analysts are concerned that DOD will not capitalize on AI’s potential to produce game-changing warfighting benefits and will instead simply use AI to incrementally improve existing processes or reinforce current operational concepts. Furthermore, the services may reject certain AI applications altogether if the technology threatens service-favored hardware or missions. Members of Congress may explore the complex interaction of these factors as DOD moves beyond the initial stages of AI adoption.