DOD is considering a number of diverse applications for AI. Currently, AI R&D is being left to the discretion of research organizations in the individual services, as well as to DARPA and the Intelligence Advanced Research Projects Agency (IARPA). However, DOD components are currently required to coordinate with the JAIC regarding any planned AI initiatives costing more than $15 million annually. In addition, the JAIC has been tasked with overseeing the National Mission Initiatives, projects that will leverage AI to address pressing operational challenges. The Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, which oversaw the development of DOD’s AI Strategy, will continue to support AI development and delivery. The Algorithmic Warfare Cross-Functional Team, also known as Project Maven, has previously been a focal point for DOD AI integration and will transition from the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence to the JAIC, where it will become the first of the JAIC’s National Mission Initiatives. Project Maven was launched in April 2017 and charged with rapidly incorporating AI into existing DOD systems to demonstrate the technology’s potential. Project Maven’s inaugural director stated, “Maven is designed to be that pilot project, that pathfinder, that spark that kindles the flame for artificial intelligence across the department.” AI is also being incorporated into a number of other intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance applications, as well as in logistics, cyberspace operations, information operations, command and control, semiautonomous and autonomous vehicles, and lethal autonomous weapon systems. AI is expected to be particularly useful in intelligence due to the large data sets available for analysis. For example, Project Maven’s first phase involves automating intelligence processing in support of the counter-ISIL campaign. Specifically, the Project Maven team is incorporating computer vision and machine learning algorithms into intelligence collection cells that would comb through footage from uninhabited aerial vehicles and automatically identify hostile activity for targeting. In this capacity, AI is intended to automate the work of human analysts who currently spend hours sifting through videos for actionable information, potentially freeing analysts to make more efficient and timely decisions based on the data. The intelligence community also has a number of publicly acknowledged AI research projects in progress. The Central Intelligence Agency alone has around projects in development that leverage AI in some capacity to accomplish tasks such as image recognition and predictive analytics. IARPA is sponsoring several AI research projects intended to produce other analytic tools within the next four to five years. Some examples include developing algorithms for multilingual speech recognition and translation in noisy environments, geo-locating images without the associated metadata, fusing 2-D images to create 3-D models, and building tools to infer a building’s function based on pattern-of-life analysis. AI may have future utility in the field of military logistics. The Air Force, for example, is beginning to use AI for predictive aircraft maintenance. Instead of making repairs when an aircraft breaks or in accordance with standardized fleet-wide maintenance schedules, the Air Force is testing an AI-enabled approach that tailors maintenance schedules to the needs of individual aircraft. This approach, currently used by the F-35’s Autonomic Logistics Information System, extracts real-time sensor data embedded in the aircraft’s engines and other onboard systems and feeds the data into a predictive algorithm to determine when technicians need to inspect the aircraft or replace parts. Similarly, the Army’s Logistics Support Activity (LOGSA) has contracted IBM’s Watson (the same AI software that defeated two Jeopardy champions) to develop tailored maintenance schedules for the Stryker fleet based on information pulled from the 17 sensors installed on each vehicle. In September 2017, LOGSA began a second project that will use Watson to analyze shipping flows for repair parts distribution, attempting to determine the most time- and cost- efficient means to deliver supplies. This task is currently done by human analysts, who have saved the Army around $100 million a year by analyzing just 10% of shipping requests; with Watson, the Army will have the ability to analyze 100% of shipping requests, potentially generating even greater cost savings in a shorter period of time.