Currently, AI technologies are highly tailored to particular applications or tasks, known as narrow (or weak) AI. In contrast, general (or strong) AI refers to intelligent behavior across a range of cognitive tasks, a capability which is unlikely to occur for decades, according to most analysts. Some researchers also use the term “augmented intelligence” to capture AI’s various applications in physical and connected systems, such as robotics and the Internet of Things, and to focus on using AI technologies to enhance human activities rather than to replace them. In describing the course of AI development, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) has identified three “waves.” The first wave focused on handcrafted knowledge that allowed for system-enabled reasoning in limited situations, though lacking the ability to learn or address uncertainty, as with many rule-based systems from the 1980s. The second wave, from approximately the 2000s to the present, has focused on advances in neural networks and machine learning (e.g., image recognition, language translation) using statistical models and big data sets. The third wave will focus on contextual adaptation—learning and reasoning as the system encounters new tasks—moving towards general AI. Among researchers and developers, the outlook on AI development and application across sectors is widely optimistic, though challenges exist. Such challenges are both technical (e.g., availability of datasets to train AI systems, and understanding and removing biases from AI-based decisions) and societal (e.g., addressing potential workforce shifts, privacy, security, and ethical use). In recent years, the private sector has been increasing research and development (R&D) investments and hiring in AI, particularly at large technology companies such as Amazon, Facebook, Google, IBM, and Microsoft. Large companies are also acquiring AI startups and launching venture funds to support startups. These and other technology companies, along with the AAAI—a nonprofit scientific society—have formed the Partnership on AI, which aims to create best practices, educate the public, and serve as a platform for discussing AI technologies and societal impacts. Automotive and ride-sharing companies, such as Toyota and Uber, have also announced large investments in AI research, as well as partnerships with university scientists and engineers. For example, the Toyota Research Institute includes experts from Stanford’s AI Laboratory and Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s Computer Science and AI Laboratory.