Though debates over AI may vary by sector, overarching considerations for ongoing federal engagement include crafting a balance in policies and regulations that mitigate social and ethical risks of new technologies while providing an environment that allows for, and potentially actively supports, AI without hindering innovation. Those who support wider development and use of AI technologies assert that increased federal and private sector research, investments, and collaboration can provide economic and societal benefits widely if well considered. Concerns about AI advances include questions of reliability and accountability for autonomous decisionmaking; ethical use (particularly in defense and law enforcement settings); privacy; and equitable sharing of AI benefits. Research and Development. Should Congress wish to augment federal AI R&D support, options could include direct funding for basic research at federal agencies and in the private sector, especially for research unlikely to be supported by industry; increased sharing of federal datasets to private sector developers for AI training and development; and prize competitions or tax incentives for commercial R&D efforts. For example, grand challenges— such as those held by DARPA to build autonomous vehicles capable of navigating complex courses—could help set ambitious goals for R&D teams to advance foundational technologies. Public-private partnerships could also help leverage private sector data and funds to support R&D of AI technologies. To cite one example, the Smart Manufacturing Innovation Institute—a partnership between the nonprofit Smart Manufacturing Leadership Coalition and the Department of Energy—plans to invest over $140 million to develop advanced manufacturing technologies such as smart sensors and to support workforce and education activities. Workforce and the Economy. Federal access to expertise has been a concern in AI and related fields such as cybersecurity. Public and private stakeholders have noted a need for more technical expertise in government. Should Congress wish to expand an AI-knowledgeable federal workforce, options could include direct hiring authorities or contractual agreements with the private sector. Further, Congress may consider efforts to grow the talent pool in AI through education programs focused on AI, or the expansion of scholarship-for-service programs to both support education and bring new talent into federal service. In the private sector, some analysts have predicted that AI advances may have disproportionate impacts on low-wage workers, causing job losses from AI-enhanced automation. On the other hand, AI is predicted to create new types of jobs. One way to help address workforce shifts could be through retraining displaced workers, either through private sector initiatives or federal programs or incentives. Coordination. Given the range of applications across sectors, interagency coordination will likely be an important mechanism for ongoing federal efforts in AI, including consideration of adaptive regulatory approaches to allow for rapid technology advancements. Coordination could be assigned to the NITRD and MLAI subcommittees, or Congress or the Administration could create a new interagency mechanism, possibly with nonfederal members.