As the first-ever chief data officer at the U.S. Special Operations Command, or SOCOM, David Spirk Jr. is tasked with managing the high expectations of the Tampa, Florida-based organization. He is now celebrating his one-year anniversary on the job. In a May speech, Gen. Richard Clarke Clarke, the new head of SOCOM, described how machine learning and AI can provide operators with tactical advantages by increasing situational awareness, reducing cognitive loads and improving the decision-making process. "There are new, innovative ways to bring this reality to the forefront," Spirk told C4ISRNET. One of the most relevant SOCOM programs that could significantly benefit from machine learning and AI is the Hyper Enabled Operator concept. HEO replaces the five-year Tactical Assault Light Operator Suit effort. "The HEO concept is one of the most important things SOCOM can be doing right now," Spirk said. "The only way we have HEO in the future is if we can reduce the cognitive load of that operator and his ability to command his resources at his disposal through automation and applied AI." For example, machine learning and AI could help to process, exploit and disseminate data from intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance. Such an advantage could come in the form of new displays available to operators in the field. That technology could also improve automation at tactical operation centers, in turn providing special operations forces with mission-specific predictions, Spirk noted. Before joining SOCOM, Spirk worked with the Department of Defense's Project Maven program, which was started in April 2017 to design computer-vision algorithms for the processing, exploitation and dissemination of full-motion video. The command is working to exploit machine learning and AI technologies across an increasingly complex operating environment, and Spirk emphasized SOCOM's mission to adhere to special operations forces' AI principles: grow the discipline, find a purpose-driven application and make it the norm. "Quick wins are demanded," Spirk said. SOCOM's Command Data Office completed its first program review July 24 — an event Clarke attended. Previous leaders also gave him "explicit guidance to go faster and deeper while responsibly challenging legacy policies or processes that get in the way of our progress," Spirk said. Such a strategy, he warned, is dependent upon cooperation across SOCOM; the Command Data Office in particular is tasked with identifying the most optimal means of creating an AI-ready workforce. 