Artificial intelligence (AI), specifically the subfields machine learning (ML) and deep learning (DL), has within a decade moved from prototyping at research institutes and universities to industry and real-world ap- plication. Modern AI using DL-techniques has revolutionized the performance of traditional AI-applications such as machine translation, QA-systems, and speech recognition. The many advancements in this field has also turned other ingenious ideas into remarkable AI-applications capable of image caption- ing , lip reading, voice imitation, video synthesis, continuous control, etc. These results suggest that a machine capable of programming itself has the potential to: 1) improve efficiency with respect the development costs of both software and hardware, 2) perform specific tasks at a superhuman level, 3) provide creative solutions to problems not previously considered by humans, and 4) provide objective and fair decisions where humans are known for being subjective, biased, unfair, corrupt, etc. In a military context, the potential for AI is present in all domains (i.e. land, sea, air, space and informa- tion) and all levels of warfare (i.e. political, strategic, operational and tactical). For instance, at the political and strategical levels, AI can be used to destabilize an opponent by producing and publishing massive quan- tities of fake information. In this case, AI will most likely also be the best candidate to defend against such attacks. At the tactical level, AI can improve partly autonomous control in unmanned systems so that human operators can operate unmanned systems more efficiently to, ultimately, increase battlefield impact. However, as we will point out in this work, there are several key challenges that could potentially slow down or otherwise limit the use of modern AI in military applications. Insufficient transparency and interpretability of ML-models. As an example, using DL to model the control of a self-driving car using a deep neural network (DNN) requires several hundreds of thousands of parameters. Clearly such a complex program can not easily be interpreted. Even models generated using alternative ML-algorithms where the model can be graphically visualized, such as parser trees or decision trees, are hard if not impossible to interpret even when applied to toy- problems. A related and perhaps even more important challenge is the ability, or in this case inability, for the AI-system to explain its reasoning to the decision maker or human operator. Models developed using ML are known to be vulnerable to adversarial attacks. For instance, a DL- based model can easily be deceived through manipulation of the input signal even if the model is unknown to the attacker. As an example, unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) using state-of-the-art object detection can potentially be deceived by a carefully designed camouflage pattern on the ground. The main ingredient in any ML-application is data from which the machines can learn and, ultimately, provide insight into. Military organizations are often good at collecting data for debriefing or recon- struction purposes. However, there is no guarantee that the same data can be used successfully for ML. As a result, military organizations may have to adapt their data collection processes to take full advantage of modern AI-techniques, such as DL. The purpose of this paper is to highlight possibilities and major challenges for AI in military appli- cations. Section 2 provides a brief introduction to DL, which is the main AI-technique of interest in this paper. Section 3 provides a few examples of military AI-applications. Section 4 describes key challenges associated with AI in the military domain, as well as techniques that can be used to partially address these challenges. Conclusions are presented in Section 5.