Maritime surveillance is performed using fixed radar stations, patrol aircrafts, ships, and in recent years electronic tracking for maritime vessels using the automatic identification system (AIS). These information sources provide voluminous amounts of information about vessel movement that may reveal illegal, unsafe, threatening, and anomalous behavior. However, the large amounts of information about vessel movement makes it difficult to manually detect such behavior. Instead ML-approaches are used to generate normality models from vessel movement data. Any vessel movement that deviates from the normality models is considered anomalous and presented to operators for manual inspection. An early approach to maritime anomaly detection use the Fuzzy ARTMAP neural network architecture to model normal vessel speed based on port location [47]. Another approach use associative learning of motion patterns to predict vessel movement based on its current location and direction of travel [48]. Others use unsupervised clustering based on Gaussian mixture models (GMM) [30] and kernel density estimation (KDE) [31]. The models enable detection of vessels that change direction, cross sea lanes, move in the opposite direction or travel at high speed. More recent approaches use Bayesian networks to detect false ship type, as well as discontinuous, impossible, and loitering vessel movement [36]. Future developments of maritime anomaly detection should also consider surrounding vessels and interaction among multiple vessels. Underwater mines pose a significant threat to marine vessels and are used to channel movement or deny passage through restricted waters. Mine countermeasures (MCM) therefore tries to locate and neutralize mines to enable freedom of movement. Mine searches are increasingly performed with an autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) that is equipped with synthetic aperture sonar (SAS), which provides centimeter-resolution acoustic imagery of the seafloor. Since AUVs collect large amounts of SAS imagery, automatic target classification is useful to discriminate potential mines from other objects. While automatic target classification of mines has been studied for a long time, the high performance of DNNs for image classification has created an interest in how such approaches may be useful for automatic mine detection. A few studies show the potential of DNN for mine detection. For example, [63] describes how dummy mine shapes, mine-like targets, man-made objects and rocks where placed on the seafloor on various geo- graphic locations. An AUV was then used to survey the seafloor with an SAS. The results show that the DNN has significantly higher performance with higher probability of detection of mine shapes and lower false alarm rates compared to a traditional target classifier. Similarly, [12] describes how to generate syn- thetic SAS images of cylinder-shaped objects and various seafloor landscapes that were used to train the DNN. Further studies may investigate how to discriminate mines from all types of clutter objects, combine detection and classification, as well as robustness to noise, blur, and occlusion.