That preserves a vital role for the four armed services. "This is not an overly centralized process," Lewis said. "It (the memo) emphasizes several times this is in collaboration with the services…. It brings focus and it brings enablers that are then used by the different services."What's not clear yet, Lewis said, is the role of the undersecretary for research and engineering, Mike Griffin. That's something that the Pentagon will have to work out over time, perhaps as part of its forthcoming AI strategy. How does JAIC compare to competitors' efforts in AI? The Chinese government has officially made global dominance in AI a national priority, while Russia constantly touts its combat robots field-tested in Syria and elsewhere.  "Within the Russian Ministry of Defense, there are now two centers responsible for the development of the latest breakthrough technologies, such as autonomous weapons, but no specific agency-wide effort to develop AI center like JAIC," said CNA scholar Sam Bendett, a close observer of Russian military technology. "On the other hand, the MOD has lots of AI and other high-tech R&D taking place amongst its numerous academic institutions, an effort that the MOD is keen on consolidating further.' In fact, in a development strangely reminiscent of the Soviet era, the Russians are actually building a "city" on the Black Sea for AI and related research, with a planned population of at least 2,000 engineers and scientists by 2020. "Currently, lots of efforts are going towards the establishment and staffing of the Era 'technopolis,'" said Bendett, "a 50-acre city with S&T and R&D centers/laboratories and living spaces for soldiers and private sector workers who will be developing numerous projects for the nation's military, with a specific focus on AI, autonomy and big data analytics." The Russians are watching US developments closely and will probably react to JAIC's creation with "a certain degree of apprehension," Bendett told me, mainly because of how it might help the Pentagon tap into America's massive private sector investment in artificial intelligence. "Currently, Russian AI funding is only a small fraction of what is spent in the US, or China, for that matter," he said. "We do have a very strong commercial sector," agreed fellow CNA analyst Larry Lewis, "but unlike China we are going to be more challenged to leverage that for national security, as we've seen with the example in Google." Google's decision to opt out of a military contract would simply be unthinkable for a Chinese company, he told me: "In China, you're free to do business but if the government wants something of yours, it's theirs." "At the highest levels, the Chinese government is prioritizing and directing strong state support to AI development, leveraging and harnessing the dynamism of the 'national champions,' including Baidu, Alibaba, and Tencent, that are at the forefront of China's AI revolution," said CNAS scholar Elsa Kania. "China's approach might be characterized as state-driven but market-centric, with an integrated approach (combing) academia, tech companies, the defense industry, and the military…..a national strategy of civil-military fusion." "For instance, Baidu is partnering with the CETC, a major state-owned defense conglomerate, through the Joint Laboratory for Intelligent Command and Control Technologies, which seeks to advance the use of big data, artificial intelligence, and cloud computing for military command and information systems," Kania went on. "This spring, the Chinese military launched what might be characterized as a would-be DIUx with Chinese characteristics. This 'rapid response team,' launched in Shenzhen, is intended to (enhance) the PLA's capability to leverage advanced commercial technologies for military purposes." So while the US has strong tradition of innovation, entrepreneurship, and individual creativity, China is investing heavily in AI, its capabilities are growing rapidly, and its government is systematically tapping civilian innovation for military use. But that's not all. "The other strength that they have is they have lots and lots of data" to train machine learning algorithms, Lewis noted. "China has many more people, they don't have privacy concerns, so they have advantages there that we don't have." "The major challenge for the US is China," Lewis said. "Not only do they have comparable capabilities in the commercial sector, which is really important, but….they have a national strategy. They are approaching the use of AI just like the US approached going to the moon in the sixties."