WASHINGTON — The F-35 and F-15EX fighter jets could get drone wingmen in the coming years, the U.S. Air Force's top acquisition official revealed to Defense News. The service is exploring ways to team Lockheed Martin's F-35 and Boeing's new F-15EX with the XQ-58 Valkyrie drone — a low-cost attritable fighter made by Kratos Defense — or similar unmanned platforms. Attritable means that an asset is reusable, but inexpensive enough that the service can afford to lose it in battle. The Air Force is in discussions with Boeing and Lockheed on the prospect, and the Air Force Research Laboratory is working on the technology, Will Roper said May 21 in an exclusive interview. "I'm very passionate about doing it, and the F-35 has a wonderful opportunity to do this as part of Block 4," Roper said, referring to the F-35's upcoming upgrade program. "We might also have an opportunity to do this as part of F-15EX." Roper told lawmakers this month that Valkyrie would transition to a prototype program known as Skyborg, where the drone will be outfitted with new sensors and payloads and will be networked to manned fighter jets. In March, he characterized Skyborg as an artificial intelligence wingman that would train and learn alongside pilots, or possibly be incorporated into a manned fighter cockpit to act as an assistant to the pilot like R2-D2 in the "Star Wars" films. But until now, the Air Force had not identified the platforms are under consideration to be equipped with Skyborg or teamed with the XQ-58 Valkyrie. The Valkyrie, which flew its first test flight at Yuma Proving Ground, Arizona, on March 5, was designed to perform and maneuver like a fighter jet. It can fly at high subsonic speeds, takeoff without a runway, and, according to Kratos, meet or exceed the Air Force's requirement for a 1,500-nautical-mile range with a 500-pound payload. When produced in volume, Roper predicted that they will cost "a couple million bucks" each — not cheap, but inexpensive compared to the F-35A and F-15EX, which are expected to cost about $80 million per jet over the same time frame. The Air Force is also assessing whether other unmanned aerial systems would complement the Skyborg program. A March request for information describes "a modular, fighter-like aircraft" that is autonomous and attritable, with open systems that allow it to be updated with new AI software or new hardware. Desired characteristics include the ability to detect and avoid obstacles and bad weather, and to takeoff and land autonomously. According to the solicitation, an "autonomous airborne system experimental campaign" could occur in fiscal years 2019 and 2020, with the hope of having an aircraft ready by 2023. Roper said teaming fighters with drones could "open up the door for an entirely different way to do aerial combat." For example, take a typical four-aircraft formation and replace it with an F-15EX and three Valkyries. "We can take risk with some systems to keep others safer," Roper said. "We can separate the sensor and the shooter. Right now they're collocated on a single platform with a person in it. In the future, we can separate them out, put sensors ahead of shooters, put our manned systems behind the unmanned. There's a whole playbook." For the F-35, the pathway to incorporating Skyborg would involve writing software — similar to an iPhone application —that could be installed on the jet during its Block 4 modernization phase in the early 2020s.